The microstructure of sulfonated polyetherether ketone ( sPEEK ) has been investigated by SAXS [ 12 ] . We recently reported a class of ionomers based on aromatic hydrocarbon copolymers with high proton conductivity and excellent thermal mechanical stability both in the dry and hydrated states [ 22e29 ] . Sulfonated poly - arylenethioethersulfone ( SPTES ) copolymers have following chemical structures ( Fig. 1 ) . SPTES copolymers including SPTES - 50 , SPTES - 60 , SPTES - 70 and SPTES - 80 , have equivalent weight ( EW ) and IEC ( mequiv . / g ) values of 610 , 515 , 459 , 417 , and 1.64 , 1.94 , 2.18 , and 2.4 , respectively [ 22 ] . They exhibited proton conductivity of 100 , 145 , 175 , and 215 mS / cm respectively , at 65 C and 85 % relative humidity [ 22 ] . Their excellent proton conductivity at high temperatures combined with their high glass transition temperature ( w200 C ) and mechanical stability ( both in the dry and hydrated states ) make them excellent potentials as high temperature PEM materials for fuel cells . SPTES - 50 copolymer membrane has successfully been fabricated to membrane electrode assemblies and exhibited polarization curves and durability up to 400 h [ 29 ] . Their successful operations at 90e100 C were limited by boiling point of water ( 100 C at 1 atm ) . Replacing water molecules with heterocycles such as imidazolium where the charge carrier has a very low vapor pressure can result in proton conductivity at higher temperatures . Despite excellent electrochemical properties , excessive water uptake of SPTES - 70 and SPTES - 80 copolymer membranes provide difﬁculties to be made as membrane electrode assembly [ 22,27 ] The proton transport and performance of SPTES copolymers highly depend on the presence of water molecules . In addition to the number of sulfonic groups , their acidity ( pKa ) ability to dissociate water molecules to proton , water activity coefﬁcient , and number of water molecules associated with each sulfonic group , the supermolecular structure of the hydro - phobic and hydrophilic phases is also deﬁned by polymer chain characteristics such as chain persistent length , and presence of sulfonic group on the backbone or in the side chains . We reported the presence of ionic nanodomains containing water molecules in the SPTES - 70 using in - situ x-ray scattering [ 27 ] . The morphology and the nanostructure of SPTES - 50 were approximated by corre - lated polydisperse spherical aggregates and a larger scale water domain network and were quantiﬁed by modeling of the SANS spectra with polydisperse hard sphere model with Percus Yevick liquid - like ordering [ 29 ] . This study reports the nanostructure and morphology of sulfonated polyarylenethioethersulfone ( SPTES ) copolymer membranes which is directly related to the proton transport through the membrane in terms of their degree of sulfonation and temperature dependency .
