-80 copolymers is attributed to the loss of the large scale water network , intermediate fractal morphology within the polymer and onset of a morphology change to a two large scale phase morphology . The closed domain morphology of polydisperse spherical aggregates containing water molecules with fractal network were present for fully hydrated SPTES - 50 and SPTES - 60 copolymer membranes at 55 C ( Figs. 3 and 4a ) . However , substantial changes in the morphology of fully hydrated membranes occurred when the degree of sulfonation is increased to 63.3 and 71.6 % for SPTES - 70 and SPTES - 80 copolymers at higher temperature of 55 C. Combination of high temperature , high density of sulfonic groups , and signiﬁcant amount of water mole - cules within the polymer backbone could have resulted in the coalescence of the small spherical ionic domains and fractal water network into a larger scale bicontinuous network of intermeshed hydrophobic and hydrophilic morphology for fully hydrated SPTES - 80 copolymer membrane at 55 C . The bicontinuous model origi - nally proposed for micro-emulsion of two immiscible phases of water and oil with comparable amount based on Landau theory [ 38,39 ] . This model describes two irregular shapes with distinct boundary and has been used for intermesh of hydrophobic and hydrophilic structure when the particle shape is not well - deﬁned [ 40,41 ] . This model proposes I ( q ) 1/4 ( a2þc1q þ c2q2 ) 1 for a2 > 0 , c1 < 0 , and c2 > 0 , a single broad scattering maxima , and power law decay of 4 at large scattering angles . Two characteristics lengths of d and x are deduced from this analysis having a2 , c1 , and c2 [ 39,40 ] , d is the domain periodicity or interdomain distance and x is the correlation length which has been attributed to the dispersion of d . According to this theory , c1 is negative due to the surfactant . The absolute values of c1 and the ratio of x / d should increase with increasing surfactant . The speciﬁc internal surface area can be derived from the ratio of S / V 1/4 44 ( 1 4 ) / x [ 38,39 ] . The scattering spectra of the hydrated SPTES - 70 copolymer membrane has a low - q upturn , a lower intermediate scattering intensity compared to the hydrated SPTES - 60 and SPTES - 50 copolymers , and a large angle maxima followed by a power law decay of 4 . This indicates the onset of the coalescence of the ionic aggregates , disruption of the fractal water network , and the formation of the two irregular large scale bicontinuous phase morphology . The high q range ( q > 0.037 1 / Å ) of the scattering
