spectra of the hydrated SPTES - 70 copolymer membrane at 55 C was compared with the T.S. bicontinuous model ( Fig. 4b ) . This simulation resulted in a periodicity , d , of 59.9 Å which is in excellent agreement with the one obtained from the scattering maxima position , 60.97 Å . According to this simulation , the correlation length ( x ) is 31.14 Å . The medium - q range scattering still exhibits the larger scale morphology which is not completely converted to the bi-continuous phase morphology . However , they are partially collapsed characterized by a lower scattering intensity in the intermediate q range . The high q maxima followed by a power law decay of 4 is approximated as bicontinuous morphology . The low and medium q ( q < 0.037 1 / Å ) scattering spectra of the SPTES 70 is due to the presence of fractal network of waters which have not coalesce yet . The scattering spectra of the SPTES - 80 copolymer are consistent with a bicontinuous two phase structure of irregular shapes with sulfonic groups as interfacial ionic region . The scattering experi - mental data of the hydrated SPTES - 80 copolymer membrane was compared with this model ( q > 0.015 1 / Å ) , ( Fig. 4c and Table 2 ) . The periodicity of the water domains ( or hydrophobic domains ) , d , predicted by this model is w54 Å which is in excellent agreement with the one obtained from the scattering maxima ( qmax ) , 56.7 Å . This value is the distance between water domains . The correlation length ( x ) obtained from this model is 37.86 Å which is a measure of dispersion . The distance between the water phases , periodicity , was decreased from 59.9 Å to 54 Å with increasing degree of sulfona - tion . The correlation length , x , was increased from 31.14 Å to 37.86 Å when the degree of sulfonation increased . Increasing the interfacial area results in an increase in the x / d ratio . The presence of the upturn in the low range of the hydrated SPTES 70 and 80 at 55 C ( Fig. 4b and c ) is attributed to the fractal morphology of the large scale features .
