Sulfonated polyarylenethioethersulfone ( SPTES ) copolymers with high proton conductivity ( 100 e215 mS / cm at 65 C , 85 % relative humidity ) are promising potential proton exchange membrane ( PEM ) for fuel cells . Small angle neutron scattering ( SANS ) of the hydrated SPTES copolymer membranes at 25 C exhibit a nanostructure which can be approximated by correlated polydisperse spherical aggregates containing water molecules with liquid - like ordering ( Percus Yevick approximation ) and large scale water pockets . The ionic domain radius and the volume packing density of the aggregates present in the hydrated SPTES copolymer membranes at 25 C increased with increasing degree of sulfonation . SPTES - 80 with highest degree of sulfonation ( 71.6 % ) showed a Guinier plateau at the very low q range ( q < 1 10 4 1 / Å ) indicating presence of isolated large scale morphology ( Rg 1/4 1.3 0.18 micron ) . The radius of spherical ionic aggregates present in the hydrated SPTES - 50 and SPTES - 60 copolymer membranes increased with increasing temperature to 55 C , but the large scale morphology changed to a fractal network . Further increase of the sulfonation degree to 63.3 % and 71.6 % ( SPTES - 70 and SPTES - 80 ) resulted in a substantial morphology change of the spherical aggregates to an irregular bicontinuous hydrophobic / hydrophilic morphology for the hydrated SPTES - 70 and SPTES - 80 copolymer membranes at 55 C. Presence of ionic maxima followed by a power law decay of 4 for SPTES - 70 and SPTES - 80 copolymer membranes was attributed to the bicontinuous phase morphology at high degree of sulfonation and elevated temperature ( 55 C ) . The disruption of the larger scale fractal morphology was characterized by signiﬁcant decrease in the intermediate scattering intensity . Hydrophobic and hydrophilic domains were separated distinctly by sulfonic groups at the interface showing as power law decay of 4 for all hydrated SPTES copolymers . 2011 Elsevier Ltd. . All rights reserved .
