In this study, barrier membranes were prepared from poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVOH) with different amounts of cellulose nanocrystals (CNXLs) as filler. Poly(acrylic acid) (PAA) was used as a crosslinking agent to provide water resistance to PVOH. The membranes were heat treated at various temperatures to optimize the crosslinking density. Heat treatment at 170 °C for 45 min resulted in membranes with improved water resistance without polymer degradation. Infrared spectroscopy indicated ester bond formation with heat treatment. Mechanical tests showed that membranes with 10% CNXLs/10% PAA/80% PVOH were synergistic and had the highest tensile strength, tensile modulus and toughness of all the membranes studied. Polarized optical microscopy showed agglomeration of CNXLs at filler loadings greater than 10%. Differential thermogravimetric analysis (DTGA) showed a highly synergistic effect with 10% CNXL/10% PAA/80% PVOH and supported the tensile test results. Transport properties were studied, including water vapor transport rate and the transport of trichloroethylene, a representative industrial toxic material. Water vapor transmission indicated that all the membranes allowed moisture to pass. However, moisture transport was reduced by the presence of both CNXLs and PAA crosslinking agent. A standard time lag diffusion test utilizing permeation cups was used to study the chemical barrier properties. The membranes containing ≥10% CNXLs or PAA showed significantly reduced flux compared to the control. The CNXLs were then modified by surface carboxylation in order to better understand the mechanism of transport reduction. While barrier performance improvements were minimal, the chemical modification improved the dispersion of the modified CNXLs which led to improved performance. Of special note was an increase in the initial degradation temperatures of both modified and unmodified systems, with the modified system showing an initial degradation temperature >100 °C higher than the cellulose alone. This may reflect more extensive crosslinking in the modified composite.
